Description
===========
Loot is an attempt to reproduce some of the core functionality of Microsoft Money 2008, using Ruby on Rails.

Why?
====
Since 1998, I have used Microsoft Money to manage my household finances. Even since switching from Windows to Mac a long time ago, I still kept a Windows machine around just so that I could continue to use MS Money.

Over the years I've tried all of the other personal finance management applications; but none seems to fit my situation/preferences the way MS Money does.

When Microsoft announced they would no longer be updating Money, and released their final Sunset version of the product; I again searched for a suitable replacement, and again found nothing that worked (for me) the same as or better than MS Money does.

So I decided that the best replacement would be one built myself (not because I think I'm a better programmer than others; but simply that I would be able to design this new application specifically to my own needs).

Status
======
Currently it is still very much in the prototype stage.

At the moment all I have is:

* The models & migrations defined
* A db:seed process that loads (some of the) data from an existing MS Money data file (accounts, payees, categories, most transaction types)
* A few crude controllers/views for viewing the list of accounts, payees, categories, and transaction lists

Still to do is:

* Ability to add/edit/delete records (accounts, payees, categories, transactions)
* Drill-down to split/payslip transactions
* Finish the db:seed load process
* UI design
* Investments
* Authentication process
* etc..  (loads more to do)

The immediate goal is to simply get the MS Money data loaded (and verify that it balances with MS Money), and be able to view the data via a web browser.
The ultimate goal is to be able to do everything I currently do in MS Money in this application; so that I can finally turn off my last remaining Windows machine.

How it works
============
To get data out of MS Money and into Loot, I'm using the excellent [Sunriise](http://sourceforge.net/projects/sunriise/) project to access the underlying data from my \*.mny file, and export it as a set of CSV files.

The import process (`rake db:seed`) uses the CSV files to populate the database.

Once imported, you can:

* View a list of accounts  (`/accounts`)
* View the list of payees  (`/payees`)
* View a hierarcy of categories & their subcategories (`/categories`)
* View the balance of an account, as at a particular date  (`/accounts/:id/?asat=yyyy-mm-dd`)
* View the transactions of an account  (`/accounts/:id/transactions`)

(Note: that last one is currently very slow, as I've not looked at optimising the SQL generated by ActiveModel; so it's currently using a very naive process that generates lots of separate SQL queries.)

